I want to manage my local storage and store the user data there and fetch it from there, from inside the
@ngrx/effects as well because I guess this would make sense,
we have the rest in the effects as well.
That means that we need a new action and that's our auto
login action. So let's create a new constant here, AUTO_LOGIN,
auth auto Login and that of course also the receives a new class now, so export a class, auto login
which implements action
and this needs no constructor, it has no payload but it gets that auto login type here
and of course I also want to add it here to my union type, auto login. OK
so this is the first step,
now we have this action,
now we can react to that
but before we do anything with automatically logging in, let's first of all make sure we store user data
in local storage with the help of our effects file. And for that, let's go back to the service and you'll
see that we did store data in local storage when we handled authentication,
we cleared it when we logged out and we read from it in auto login.
Hence here in the auth effects, we want to store data for logging in and for signing up.
Now we do have that handle authentication function here which we call as part of these effect chains
and therefore we could write data to local storage here as well. So here, we can now create a new user,
for that
you need to import your user model here in the auth effects file and that user takes of
course the e-mail, it takes the user ID, it takes the token and it takes this expiration date
we calculated and then we can just call local storage set item and now let's see, what did I name
it here in the auth service?
It was named user data,
so essentially we can just copy that line and move that into our effects.
Now it's called in a function but this function as part of our effects chain, for both signing up and
logging in,
so this is part of the @ngrx/effects world now.
I also want to clear that and remove that from local storage
if we do logout and for that, we can simply add a new effect here,
auth logout where we use this
actions pipe and watch out for the auth actions logout type and if that occurs,
then I just want to tap and execute some code.
So again this will be an effect that doesn't dispatch anything,
hence we add @effect with that object, dispatch false because I won't dispatch anything and inside
of the tap function here,
we can access local storage and basically run the same code as we're doing it in the auth service, there
I'm removing the user data.
Now what about auto login?
Well we can essentially copy
that entire code and then we'll need to adjust it a little bit,
move it into auth effects here and add a new effect, auto login
where we filter out actions of actions of type
auto login and then as a next step, if we have a look at the code I
just copied, in the end what we do is we pass data from local storage,
we create a user based on that,
then we check if that user token is valid and so on and if it is, we dispatch a new action to authenticate
the user,
otherwise we do nothing,
let's ignore the auto logout part for now.
So in auth effects, we can add another tap call here, copy in that code and let's go through it.
We first of all retrieved data from local storage,
we create a user, based on that data
we check the validity of that token and then here, we're dispatching an action and we have that auto
logout logic.
Let's comment out the auto logout logic for the moment and here,
of course I also don't want to dispatch,
instead I want to return this as a new action and then @ngrx/effects dispatches it for us.
Hence it's maybe better to not use tap which will not return anything but map instead,
map still allows us to parse all that data and then here,
I'm not calling this store dispatch but I simply return this prepared action here, so
that is all we need to do here. Now to give this a try,
of course we have to make sure that auto login is actually dispatched.
So let's go to our app component, here where I do call auto login on the auth service and now instead
of using the auth service, here I'm interested in using my store which needs to be imported from
@ngrx/store
and then I also need my AppState,
so from app, so from the root app reducer from the store folder, I get from app which I then use here
to assign this AppState as a type for the store we're injecting and here, instead of calling this auth
service, we call this store dispatch and then we need access to our auth actions, so import as
auth actions
from ./auth/store/auth.actions, let's use a new auth actions auto login action here and we should
be good. Let's save that and
let's wait for the app to reload and I'm getting an error that I dispatched an invalid action undefined,
that is stemming from auth effects, there in auto login, I am returning a new action but only if
we have a valid token, otherwise I don't.
So let's return something out of that if statement too, that can be an object which simply needs to have
a type property because that qualifies a valid action,
you don't need to create it based on a class, if you need a simple action, you can do it on the fly with
an object literal with the type property and give it any dummy identifier, like dummy here, anything
like that. Now this is is a valid action which simply has no effect and then we also need to do the
same up here where I return nothing thus far, also return dummy here and with that if we go back, now
this works.
Now let's try logging in here,
you can check the application tab and there, local storage to see if something was stored, that is looking
good.
Let's now reload the app and auto login also seems to work,
otherwise we wouldn't end up here.
If I logout and I then reload, I'm back here, so then we really cleared that.
So this is all working,
the missing piece is that auto logout
so that we clear the token from local storage automatically and that we logout the user once our token
expired.